aha isn't it a cute horse standing over
there
but wait is it sleeping in reality
the animal you see is just dozing it'll
still need to lie down to have proper
rem
which stands for rapid eye movement
sleep in people this is the stage when
we dream
your arms and legs can't move during
rims if they did
you'd start to act your dreams out and
could accidentally hurt yourself
but back to that horse even though it's
only dozing while standing up
that's still an impressive feat you
won't be able to repeat it
horses have a system of tendons and
ligaments that help them stay
upright with ease the major joints in
the legs get locked
and the animal can relax and catch some
z's without worrying about
crashing to the ground oh by the way
the amount of rem sleep horses need is
surprisingly small
usually it's a series of short intervals
two or three hours a day in total
that's why they don't have to lie down
often but some animals do it just
because they feel more comfortable that
way
horses take naps while standing because
sleeping isn't safe enough when they're
lying down
it's rather tricky for a horse to get up
from the ground and it's a waste of
precious time
while a horse is struggling to get to
its feet some meat eater can tackle the
animal down
and make it it's dinner that's why
horses only lie down for short periods
of time
they also have a special lookout system
when one animal is watching over the
others while they're napping
each member of the herd gets to play the
role of the watch horse
anyway not only horses but also zebras
elephants
giraffes some birds like flamingos and
sometimes even cows can take naps while
standing up
but then why not humans well to pull off
this trick
your legs would have to be aligned
vertically and your knees
be able to lock in place then you
wouldn't need much effort to keep
yourself upright
but it's not how your body's built if
you're exhausted
you might fall asleep while standing up
but you'd immediately wake up
and this would prevent your body from
hitting the floor your muscles start to
gradually relax during each next stage
of sleep
and very soon after you doze off they
won't be able to hold you upright
anymore
it's a quiet winter night and the bird
perched on the top tree branch seems to
be sleeping
and then there's some noise a human
would hardly notice it
so quiet it is but the owl and that's
what the bird is
has perfect hearing it's even more
important for this creature than good
eyesight
in the blink of an eye the bird moves
whoa it looks like its head is facing
backwards
owls are so flexible they can twist
their heads in an
almost full circle these birds have
fixed eye sockets
so it means their eyeballs don't rotate
and they
somehow have to make up for it twisting
the head
up to 270 degrees is only possible
because it's connected to the body in a
particular very clever way
and the tissues and blood vessels where
the neck meets the body can't snap
they're designed to flex owls also have
many vertebrae
tiny bones that make up the spine and
neck it's another thing that helps them
perform their head swiveling trick
now you have a totally different neck
structure but it still serves all your
needs
humans have spherical eyes and can move
them freely
unlike owls you simply don't need your
neck to turn all the way around
but yes it would be a great party trick
a goblin shark is swimming unhurriedly
through the deep sea
when it notices a yummy looking fish
the shark starts to inch closer to its
future meal
but the fish notices the hunter and
tries to dart away
and then like in a horror movie the
larger animal threats its jaw
out of its mouth and grabs the fish the
goblin shark's terrifying jaws are
attached to elastic ligaments
they can unfold from its snout for up to
three inches
it allows the animal to catapult its
mouth forward to catch an
unfortunate fish or squid or whatnot
if only your mouth could do the same
then you'd be able to munch on stuff
dangling seven inches away from your
face without using your hands to grab
the food
and no we're not so concerned about
table manners here
so you're lying on your bed in a hotel
room in a tropical country
and lazily watching a small gecko it's
running across the floor
reaching the wall look it's scaling it
and right now it's hanging upside down
over your head
geckos can stick to all kinds of
surfaces thanks to their bulbous toes
they're covered with hundreds of
microscopic hairs and each hair in turn
splits off into even tinier bristles
this creates such a strong
physical bond that the hair molecules
and the surface molecules
start to interact and it creates an
electromagnetic attraction
this method allows geckos to stick and
unstick their toes and feet
lightning fast they can dash across
different surfaces
at 20 body lengths per second
unfortunately this super ability is also
unavailable for humans
the only thing your fingers and toes can
do is wrinkle after being in the water
for too long
this improves your grip on wet objects
by channeling the water away
just like rain treads in your car tires
and your friends can call you pruning
hands
hey i didn't say it was a compliment
each of the tarsier's eyes is as big as
the animal's brain
that's a not so subtle sign that vision
is crucial for these small animals
their huge eyeballs don't move a tarsier
has to turn its whole head
if it needs to look to the left or to
the right on the bright side
ding the animal can see an almost total
darkness
and hunt insects lizards and small birds
even at night
the tarsier's eyes gather and reflect
even the tiniest specks of light
it gives the creature a clear picture of
what's happening around
that's why these eyes are like the
animal kingdom's equivalent of night
vision goggles
as for us humans our eyes are designed
in a different way
we see exceptionally well only during
daylight hours
in a dark room or outside at night
you're likely to have
problems with seeing things or colors
well enough
that's because there are two types of
light-sensitive organs in the back of
your eyes
some are cone-shaped others are rod
shaped the rods help you see in dim
light
but they don't let you detect colors and
the cones
allow you to see finer details and
vibrant hues
but they don't work when the lighting is
poor so once it's dark
only rods keep responding to available
light
but since they can't distinguish colors
you only see different shades of black
gray and white alright you're sitting on
the riverbank watching the water flowing
when a lizard runs by at breakneck speed
yep
right on the water that's the basilis
lizard
it has special long toes on his rear
feet
they're equipped with fringes of skin
that spread out when the animals moving
this increases the area of contact with
the water
it also helps that the lizard is pumping
its legs incredibly fast
they slap hard against the surface and
this forms tiny pockets of air
these pockets keep the lizard on top of
the water but
only as long as they don't slow down now
even if the average person has special
shoes shaped like the basilis
lizard's feet they'd still have to run
at a speed of 65 miles per hour
not to go underwater if you find
yourself
in the jungle of south and southeast
asia beware of snakes
hey why are you looking at the ground i
mean flying snakes
airborne snakes sound like the stuff
from nightmares but they do exist
now they don't actually fly if there's
no strong updraft that is
these reptiles are gliders they use the
speed of free fall to catch air once
they do
it's not a problem to generate some left
now at first glance you won't be able to
tell the flying snake from any other
it has a tube shaped body and no limbs
but then the creature starts to get
ready for takeoff
it slithers to the very end of a branch
and dangles
creating a j shape with its body once
the snake propels itself down
it changes into an s and gets twice
flatter than usual its round body
becomes curved inward and traps air
the reptile can even make turns by
moving up and down
like waves on the sea the coolest thing
is that flying snakes
are even better gliders than let's say
the much more famous
flying squirrels hey rocky